Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.
Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things, and keep the ordinances,
as I have delivered them to you.
But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman
is the man, and the head of Christ is God.
Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoreth his head.
But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered, dishonoreth her head.
For that is even all one, as if she were shaven.
For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn.
But if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered.
For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, for as much as he is the image and glory of
God, but the woman is the glory of the man.
For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man.
Neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man.
For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels.
Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in
the Lord.
For as the woman is of the man, even so the man also by the woman, but all things of God.
Judge in yourselves, is it comely that a woman pray into God uncovered?
Doth not even nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair it is a shame to him?
But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given her for a covering.
But if any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches
of God.
Now in this that I declare unto you, I praise you not, that ye come together not for the
better, but for the worse.
For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions
among you, and I partly believe it.
For there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest
among you.
When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper.
For in eating every one taketh before other his own supper, and one is hungry, and another
is drunken.
What have ye not houses to eat and to drink in?
Or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not?
What shall I say to you?
Shall I praise you in this?
I praise you not.
For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus,
the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread.
And when he had given thanks, he break it, and said, Take eat.
This is my body, which is broken for you.
This do in remembrance of me.
After the same manner also, he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the
New Testament in my blood.
This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me.
For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till
he come.
Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall
be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup.
For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself,
not discerning the Lord's body.
For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep.
For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.
But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned
with the world.
Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another.
And if any man hunger, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation.
And the rest I will set in order when I come.
Chapter 12
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
Ye know that ye were Gentiles carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led.
Wherefore I give you to understand that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth
Jesus accursed, and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.
Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.
And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.
And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.
But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal.
For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge
by the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another the gifts of healing
by the same Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another
discerning of spirits, to another diverse kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation
of tongues.
But all these worketh that one and the self same Spirit, dividing to every man severally
as he will.
For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being
many are one body, so also is Christ.
For by one Spirit we are all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles,
whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.
For the body is not one member, but many.
If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, Is it therefore
not of the body?
And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, Is it therefore
If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing?
If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
But now hath God set the members, every one of them, in the body, as it hath pleased him.
And if they were all one member, where were the body?
But now are they many members, yet but one body.
And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the
feet, I have no need of you.
Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary.
And those members of the body which we think to be less honourable, upon these we bestow
more abundant honour.
And our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.
For our comely parts have no need, but God hath tempered the body together, having given
more abundant honour to that part which lacked.
That there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same
care one for another.
And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it.
Or when member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it.
Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.
And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers,
after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.
Are all apostles?
Are all prophets?
Are all teachers?
Are all workers of miracles?
Have all the gifts of healing?
Do all speak with tongues?
Do all interpret?
But covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet show I unto you a more excellent way.